Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set
Getting and Cleaning Data Coursera course project

This repository contains a tidy dataset (tidy_avgs.txt) obtained by manipulating data from the Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones project.

Source

The data used here come from the site http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones. This data represents results of 10299 observations generated by one of 30 volunteers performing one of six activities, with 561 features computed in each case from the accelerometer and gyroscope of a Samsung Galaxy phone.

Process

The data was processed using R version 3.2.4 (2016-03-10) , with packages dplyr version 0.4.3, and reshape2 version 1.4.1.

The data and activity and feature labels from the original dataset were combined, then averages computed and reported for the mean and standard deviation features. The script run_analysis.R is annotated to describe the process.

Included Files

README.md: this document; explains contents of repository and process used to generate tidy dataset.

CodeBook.md: Explanation of individual variables in the tidy dataset tidy_avgs.txt.

run_analysis.R: R script used to generate tidy_avgs.txt from source data.

tidy_avgs.txt: Tidy dataset created by run_analysis.R.

Reference:
Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. A Public Domain Dataset for Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones. 21th European Symposium on Artificial Neural Networks, Computational Intelligence and Machine Learning, ESANN 2013. Bruges, Belgium 24-26 April 2013.
